---
title: Abstract
order: 1
container: header
---
_Bacillus anthracis_ is a spore-forming pathogen that both occurs naturally in the wild and has been used for biological warfare. The detection of _B. anthracis_ in metagenomic datasets can be confounded by the presence of other species from the genus _Bacillus_, which are closely related and often found in similar environmental conditions. _B. anthracis_ encodes its pathogenicity via two plasmids, pXO1 and pXO2, and is monophyletic. Given the paramount importance of high-confidence detection for this pathogen, we constructed a targeted genomic detection panel for use with both isolates and metagenomic samples. The _B. anthracis_ detection panel is executed on the One Codex platform, quantifying the proportion of species-specific markers detected on the core chromosome, each virulence plasmid, as well as the presence of a canonical chromosomal SNP. Tested against a collection of dozens of public _Bacillus_ isolates, this panel clearly discriminates between _B. anthracis_ and other closely related _Bacillus_ species. Furthermore, an _in silico_ limit of detection study demonstrates this high-confidence detection at as low as 0.1X sequencing depth. This targeted gene panel provides a robust tool for the high-confidence detection of _B. anthracis_ in metagenomic samples, while also demonstrating how the One Codex platform integrates orthogonal bioinformatic methods in order to provide a comprehensive understanding of complex microbial samples.
