---
title: "Discussion"
order: 5
---

The extreme virulence and environmental stability of _Bacillus anthracis_ requires high-confidence assays that simultaneously enable trace detection and are robust to reporting alarming false positives. However, the specific biology of _B. anthracis_ and other _Bacillus_ species requires an assay that independently characterizes both the core genome and virulence plasmids in the context of complex metagenomic samples. Indeed, _Bacillus cereus_ isolates have been recently found containing the pXO1 and pXO2 virulence plasmids and causing Anthrax-like disease ([Klee, et al., (2010)](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0010986)).

We present a targeted assay for the specific detection of _Bacillus anthracis_ which is designed with the biology of that pathogen in mind. This assay detects the diagnostic plcR SNP, the pXO1/pXO2 virulence plasmids, the core _B. anthracis_ genome, and a set of sequences conserved broadly across _Bacillus_ species. 

A potentially confounding scenario addressed by this assay is the presence of a small number of _B. anthracis_ SNPs in a deeply-sequenced metagenomic sample. Those sequences may be present due to trace levels of the pathogen, but they may alternately be caused by a large number of reads from another _Bacillus_ species and a low-level of sequencing instrument error. To distinguish between these possibilities, we present the level of evidence for _B. anthracis_ in the context of the relative abndance of all _Bacillus_ species in a sample. The user can compare that relative abundance to the rate of sequencing error in order to determine whether the evidence merits concern. 

We tested this detection panel for _B. anthracis_ against a diverse set of previously-sequenced _Bacillus_ species and found that all of the 23 analyzed _B. anthracis_ isolates contained 65.2% or more of the core genome markers, while all of the 42 analyzed other _Bacillus_ isolates contained 2.5% or lower core genome markers ([Figure 2](#figure-2)). We also performed a limit-of-detection analysis and found that this assay was quite robust to the presence of a near neighbor *Bacillus* ([Figure 3](#figure-3)). 

It is rarely the case that a single bioinformatic analysis reveals everything there is to know about a sample. This assay is designed for a very specific, and very important, scenario -- when there is some evidence that a sample may contain the dangerous pathogen _B. anthracis_. Moreover, we believe that this demonstrates a general approach to bioinformatics that is well-suited for the applied end-user. The detection of all organisms in a sample is a useful first-tier tool for characterization, but all further analysis is predicated on the initial detection of certain orgnaisms. The _B. anthracis_ detection panel demonstrates this approach -- it provides a highly-detailed answer to a specific question, and all of its metrics are designed around the biology of _B. anthracis_ and other Anthrax-causing _Bacillus_. We believe that this tool will be useful for scientists in public health and biodefense, and we hope that it serves as a model for how to develop the tools needed for applied metagenomics. 
