---
title: "Results"
order: 4
---

### Inclusivity & Exclusivity Testing
For each sample, we summarized the result of the detection panel as the proportion of markers detected from the main chromosome, as well as for the plcR SNP and pXO1 and pXO2 plasmids. For the core genome, [Figure 2](#figure-2) shows a frequency histogram of the proportion of markers detected for the target organism (*B. anthracis*) and other *Bacillus* speices. The lowest proportion of core genome markers detected in a *B. anthracis* dataset was 65.2%, and the highest proportion of core genome markers detected in the exclusion dataset was 2.5% (for [SRR2157174](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/SRR2157174/)). The plcR SNP was detected in 100% of all *B. anthracis* isolates and in none of the other *Bacillus* isolates. The pXO1/pXO2 virulence plasmids were found to varying degrees in these *B. anthracis* samples ([Figure 3](#figure-3) and [Figure 4](#figure-4)), consistent with both genomic heterogeneity in these mobile elements, as well as a number of *B. anthracis* isolates in the public repositories that entirely lack those plasmids.


### Scaling Detection to Conserved *Bacillus* Markers
We scaled the mean depth of sequencing at *B. anthracis*-specific markers against the depth of sequencing at a set of genomic markers conserved across the *Bacillus* genus in order to account for the potentially confounding effect of near neighbors and low-level instrument error. [Figure 5](#figure-5) shows the proportion of sequencing depth *B. anthracis*-specific markers to the depth across conserved *Bacillus* markers for the same set of isolates.  The proportional detection among *B. anthracis* isolates ranged from 18% - 81%, consistent with a range of conservation across the core genome. The other *Bacillus* isolates ranged from 0% - 0.09%, a magnitude of detection no larger than the rate of sequencing error expected for Illumina chemistry.


### Limit of Detection Analysis
Analysis of *in silico* mixed samples containing *B. anthracis* or other *Bacillus* at a range of low abundances is shown in [Figure 6](#figure-6). The proportion of detected markers increases roughly linearly with the amount of target genome coverage in the input dataset. The presence of a near neighbor (*B. thuringensis*) at a high abundance (~10X), does not impact the proportion of *B. anthracis* markers detected. The plcR SNP was detected in 33.3% of samples with a spike-in level of 0.1X and above, 50% of samples at 0.75X, and 83.3% of samples at 2X spike-in. This rate of detection is consistent with the expected distribution of random sampling across the core genome. As [Figure 6](#figure-6) demonstrates, these detection rates are robust to the presence of a near neighbor, even when the spiked in _B. thuringiensis_ is ~100X more abundant than the target _B. anthracis_. [Figure 7](#figure-7) shows the detection of *B. anthracis* scaled to the total abundance of *Bacillus* species in these synthetic spike-in samples. These data show that even at 0.1X spike-in, when the near neighbor is present in ~1000-fold excess of *B. anthracis*, the relative depth of sequencing at conserved *B. anthracis* markers (0.5% - 0.8%) is much above that level expected due to sequencing error.
